---
layout: post
title: E-mail Aliases
date: 2010-03-02 16:45
author: VertigoRay
comments: true
tags: [E-mail, Spam, Uncategorized]
---
<p>For a while, I&rsquo;ve been creating an email alias for every site that I have to create an account for.<br /><br /> For example, let&rsquo;s say that my email address is example@vertigion.com. When I went to <a href="http://donate.vertigion.com/">DreamHost.com</a> and made an account for them, I would create an alias such as:<br /><br /><em>example.dreamhost.com@vertigion.com &gt; example@vertigion.com</em><br /><br /> Email that was sent to example.dreamhost.com@vertigion.com would show up in my example@vertigion.com inbox.<!-- more --><br /><br /><strong>Why?</strong> If <a href="http://donate.vertigion.com/">DreamHost.com</a> ever sells my email, I know exactly who is selling my email address. When they do sell it, I can redirect all mail to that address to my junk account instead of blocking each spammer as my email is resold. Basically, I could set a rule to block the To address instead of every new From address.<br /><br /> Anyway, it was easy enough to do for me cause I know how to do it, but then I told some of my family about how I prevent spam mail and they got excited and wanted to do it too. Of course, I wasn&rsquo;t comfortable giving them admin access to my server so they could alias their email addresses, so I did some digging in the interwebs and found some interesting information referencing <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E-mail_address#Sub-addressing">sub-addressing</a>.<br /><br /> Wow! Now, I don&rsquo;t even have to log into the server to alias my address for each website! It&rsquo;s like auto-aliasing:<br /><em>example+dreamhost.com@vertigion.com &gt; example@vertigion.com</em><br /><br /><strong>How do I know if my email server supports sub-addressing? </strong>Try it!! Example+test@vertigion.com would be a good test. Apparently, some <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E-mail_address#Sub-addressing">sub-addressing</a> support hyphens as well, so you might want to try example-test@vertigion.com. If either (or both) show up in your inbox, you&rsquo;ll know it works! How cool is that?<br /><br /> The best part is, I don&rsquo;t have to subject my email server to people who don&rsquo;t really know what they are doing.<br /><br /><strong>Any downsides?</strong></p>
<ul><li>Well &hellip; it is a supported/used syntax, so it&rsquo;s possible that a hacker/email-seller/email-buyer could filter the plus (+) syntax off and just send the email to example@vertigion.com. I guess at that point you&rsquo;re no worse off than before &hellip;</li>
<li>&ldquo;Some mail servers violate RFC 5322, and the recommendations in RFC 3696, by refusing to send mail addressed to a user on another system merely because the local-part of the address contains the plus sign (+)&rdquo; (Ref: <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E-mail_address#Sub-addressing">Wikipedia</a>). This has a few implications:</li>
<li>Some mail servers will not send to your address with the plus (+) sign despite the<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E-mail_address#RFC_specification">specifications</a>.</li>
<li>Some web sites may consider the plus (+) sign to be invalid despite the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E-mail_address#RFC_specification">specifications</a>.</li>
</ul><p><br /><strong>For those using Vertigion.com email &hellip;</strong><br /> We support the plus (+) syntax, and will continue to support the plus (+) syntax after our email migration.</p>
